https://www.scaler.com/topics/sql/subqueries-in-sql/




Types of subqueries in SQL.

💡A subquery, is a query placed within another SQL query.

·     A subquery may occur in:
• SELECT clause
• FROM clause
• WHERE clause

·     Subquery can be nested inside a SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE statement or inside another subquery.
 
💡Types of Subqueries:
1. Single Row Subquery - Returns zero or one row in results.
2. Multiple Row Subquery - Returns one or more rows in results.
3. Multiple Column Subqueries - Returns one or more columns
4. Correlated Subqueries - Returns one or more columns according to the main or the outer query, thus called a correlated subquery.
5. Nested Subqueries - We have multiple subqueries within a query (like a nested loop).



What is Scalar Subquery or Single-row Subquery in SQL?
Single Row Sub Query
A single-row subquery is used when the outer query's results are based on a single, unknown value. Although this query type is formally called "single-row,"
the name implies that the query returns multiple columns-but only one row of results. However, a single-row subquery can return only one row of results consisting of only one column to the outer query.

In the below SELECT query, inner MySQL returns only one row i.e. the minimum salary for the company. It, in turn, uses this value to compare the salary
of all the employees and displays only those, whose salary is equal to minimum salary.

SELECT first_name, salary, department_id
FROM employees
WHERE salary = (SELECT MIN (salary)
FROM employees);




multiple row subquery


📌What is MULTIPLE ROW SUB QUERY in SQL?

💡MULTIPLE ROW SUB QUERY (inner query) always returns multiple rows to the outer query.

Example: Query id, name, and department_id of Sales, and Marketing employees.

Input:
employees table : id, name, salary, department_id
departments table : department_id, department

Query:
SELECT
id, [name], department_id
FROM
employees 
WHERE
department_id IN (SELECT department_id 
FROM departments 
WHERE department IN ('Sales', 'Marketing'));


📌What is CORRELATED SUBQUERY  in SQL?

💡CORRELATED SUBQUERY (Synchronized query) – is a subquery that uses values from the outer query. Correlated subquery depends on the outer query for its values (like recursion).
